---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9: Fail2ban on Ubuntu"
date:   2019-11-08 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h2>Fail2ban on Ubuntu</h2>

Fail2ban is a log parsing software that protects servers from brute-force attack by catching symptoms of automated attack. It carries intrusion prevention functionality. Compatible with POSIX systems with preinstalled local firewall or packet-control system. Fail2ban has no intention to replace local firewalls. Operates with both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. Software operates by reading log files in /var/log directory and runs scripts based on specific settings. Most common task is to block selected IP addresses of hosts that trying to breach security. For instance, it will block IP address of the host that trying to make multiple unsuccessful login attempts, assume performing dictionary attack. Fail2ban configured to unban suspicious hosts after some time. Administrator may specify time frame that banned hosts will be blocked. In case if suspicious host keep coming back, longer ban may be applied. Functionality of Fail2ban allows to perform actions in response to attack: may send email notification according to mail list, may update tables and rules of local firewall software, etc.

<h2>To install Fail2ban on Ubuntu:</h2>

  1.Check for system update

    apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -y

  2.Install fail2ban:

    apt-get install Fail2ban

  3.(Optional) If email support required, install Sendmail:

    apt-get install Sendmail

  4.Allow ssh conection through UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall):

    ufw allow ssh

  enable firewall:

    ufw enable

<h2>Configure Fail2ban</h2>

Firstly, Fail2ban reads ```.conf``` configuration file, then ```.local``` files override any settings, thus all configuration changes done in ```.local``` files. Default configuration profile contained in ```fail2ban.conf```, in case if customization to settings required, then it is better to make changes in separate file named ```failban.local``` (this file will override ```fail2ban.conf```). To make a copy of current ```.conf``` and rename it:

    cp /etc/fail2ban/fail2ban.conf /etc/fail2ban/fail2ban.local

Values that can be changed:

 - ```loglevel```: level of log detailes may be set to 1=error, 2=warn, 3=info, 4=debug
 - ```logtarget```: specifies file to log actions. Default value of /var/log/fail2ban.log file will be logged in specified file
 - ```socket```: location of the socket files
 - ```pidfile```: location of the PID files

 <h2>Configure jail.local settings

 The configuration file ```jail.conf``` enables Fail2ban for SSH by default on Ubuntu. If customization will be applied to jail configuration, it is recommended to create a copy named ```jail.local``` of default config file.

<h3>Whitelist IP</h3>
To ignore some specific IPs that we are confident, such IPs should be added to ```ingnorip``` line.

    [DEFAULT]
    #"ignoreip" can be an IP address, a CIDR mask or a DNS host. Fail2ban will not ban a hosts
    #which matches an address in this list. Several addresses can be defined using space #separator
    ignoreip = 127.0.0.1/8 124.64.52.74

to be continued




[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
