---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8: AWS NAT"
date:   2019-11-02 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h3>AWS VPC networking components NAT</h3>

Network address translation (NAT) is a virtual private cloud networking component designed to allow private subnet to connect to the Internet. Primary goal of NAT to allow outbound connection but eliminate incoming connections. Instances in private subnets are sending requests via NAT, and then sends responses back to instances in private subnets. AWS NAT component performs two roles: network address translation and port address translation.

AWS provides two option of NAT: NAT Gateway and NAT instance. NAT Gateway provides better availability, higher bandwidth (scale up to a 45Gbps), and it is managed by AWS (does not required administrative maintenance). NAT instance is cheaper, requires maintenance, and bandwidth limited by the instance type.

To create NAT Gateway using AWS CLI:

    aws ec2 create-nat-gateway --subnet-id public-subnet-1 --allocation-id eipalloc-37fc1a52

Output:

    {
      "NatGateway": {
        "NatGatewayAddresses": [
          {
            "AllocationId": "eipalloc-37fc1a52"
          }
        ],
        "VpcId": "vpc-09e287ce81b5ffb91",
        "State": "pending",
        "NatGatewayId": "nat-05dba92075d71c445",
        "SubnetId": "public-subnet-1",
        "CreateTime": "2019-11-1T12:45:26.732Z"
      }
    }

To help manage AWS resources assignment of own metadata in the form of "tags" will help. Just for precautins, tag keys and their values will be returned by various API calls. Implementation of "deny access" to DescribeTags won't automatically apply deny access to tags by other APIs calls. Recomended by AWS not to include sensitive data in tags. Each AWS resource may have up to a 50 tags. Tags are implemented in the for of key=string, value=string. Tag keys are unique for each AWS resource.

    aws ec2 create-tags --resources ami-21jh24g4jh4 i-0753dad7e4070Obce --tags Key=webserver, Value=Apache2_web_server

If special characterd must be used in the tags, then they need to be escaped. For Windows users element with special characters should be surrounded with double qouts (") and preceded with backslash (\):

    --tags Key=\"[Group]\", Value=users

For Windows PoserShell users element with special characters should be surrounded by quotes ("), preceded with backslash (\), and entire key:value element should be wraped with single quotes('):

    --tags 'Key=\"[Group]\", Value=users'

For Linux or OS X users, the elements with spechial characters sould be surrounded with double quotes ("), and entire key:value structure should be surrounded with single quotes ('):

    --tags 'Key="[Group]", Value=users'

To describe NAT Gateway:

    aws ec2 describe-nat-gateways

    {
      "NatGateways": [
        {
          "NatGatewayAddresses": [
            {
              "PublicIp": "198.11.222.333",
              "NetworkInterfaceId": "eni-9dec76cd",
              "AllocationId": "eipalloc-37fc1a52",
              "PrivateIp": "10.0.0.149"
            }
          ],
          "VpcId": "vpc-09e287ce81b5ffb91",
          "Tags": [
                  {
                      "Value": "webserver1",
                      "Key": "apache2"
                  }
          ],
          "State": "available",
          "NatGatewayId": "nat-05dba92075d71c445",
          "SubnetId": "subnet-847e4dc2",
          "CreateTime": "2019-11-1T12:35:26.556Z"
        },
        {
          "NatGatewayAddresses": [
            {
              "PublicIp": "198.11.128.128",
              "NetworkInterfaceId": "eni-71ec7621",
              "AllocationId": "eipalloc-37fc1a52",
              "PrivateIp": "10.0.0.77"
            }
          ],
          "VpcId": "nat-05dba92075d71c445",
          "Tags": [
                  {
                      "Value": "webserver2",
                      "Key": "apache2"
                  }
          ],
          "State": "available",
          "NatGatewayId": "nat-0a93a455645645688",
          "SubnetId": "public-subnet-2",
          "CreateTime": "2019-11-1T12:41:26.128Z"
        }
      ]
    }

To delete NAT Gateway:

    aws ec2 delete-nat-gateway --nat-gateway-id nat-nat-05dba92075d71c445

Upon deletion of NAT Gateway, elastic IP being disassociated, however elastic IP not released from user's account. Deleting NAT Gsteway does not affect any routes in route table.



[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
