---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11: Infrastructure monitoring"
date:   2019-11-22 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h2>Infrastructure Monitoring</h2>

<h3>Option 1: ELK Stack</h3>

The ELK stack includes: Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana. The stack is open source. Helpful to manage large amounts of logged data. The ELK has graphical web interface. The whole stack developed by one developer Elastic, which implies better inter component interactions. Installation is very easy, specifically on Ubuntu systems. Recently one more component Beats was added to a stack. Combination of four components called Elastic Stack.

All three components works as a single system. Elasticsearch has functionality of search and analytics engine. Logstash component is processing data pipeline on server side. It gets data from multiple sources simultaneously, then transforms it, and sends to Elasticsearch. Last component Kibana visualizes data with graphs and charts in Elasticsearch.

<h3>Option 2: Graylog</h3>

The Graylog is an open source platform for log management for structured and unstructured data, and includes debugging applications. Components of Graylog are: Elasticsearch, MongoDB, Graylog. Graylog composed of main server (graylog server) that receives the data from mutiple servers (Elasticsearch nodes-clients), web interface for data visualization.

Architectural specifications:
  - Graylog server CPU power matters a logtarget
  - Clients need as much as possible of RAM, as well very fast disks due to the dependability on I/O speed.
  - Database MongoDB can be fairly small becuse used only to store configuration and dead letter messages
  - Graylog web interfaces nodes can be small due to their functionality of waiting HTTP answers from clients
  - Backup needed for messages stored only in Elasticsearch, because in case of data loss at Elasticsearch messages will be lost

<h3>Option 3: Prometheus</h3>

Prometheus used for event monitoring and alerting. It is open-source software. Prometheus records real time metrics in a series database. It is using HTTP pull model, flexible queries, and provides real-time alerting. Typical Prometheus monitoring platform includes following tools:
  - Prometheus - centralized point of management and storage facility for metrics
  - Exporters - run on multiple hosts to export their metrics
  - Alertmanager - triggers alerts based on metrics
  - Grafana - information visualization and produce dashboards
  - PromQL - query language to perform alerts and compose dashboards




[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
